docs/walkthrough.adoc, before:

= Azure DevOps Demo
:experimental:
:imagesdir: images
:toc:
:toclevels: 4

[IMPORTANT]
.On necessary operators
====
See link:../README.adoc[] for information on operators and other prerequisites that must be installed for the demo to run properly.
====

== Initial Setup

The following sections review the different windows and potential setup necessary prior to going through the different chapters of this walkthrough.

=== Demo Shell

. Go to the root of the `azure-devops-demo` directory on your local machine
. Run this docker command from that directory (so that all the remaining commands will be run from inside a container will all the necessary tools installed)
+
----
docker run -u root --rm -it -v ~/.kube:/opt/app-root/.kube -v ~/.azure:/opt/app-root/.azure -v ~/.ssh:/opt/app-root/.ssh -v $(pwd):/opt/app-root/src quay.io/mhildenb/az-demo-shell:latest /bin/zsh
----
+
. Open a second shell offscreen, the `hidden shell` and go to the root of the `azure-devops-demo` directory on your local machine
. Run the same docker command from before
+
----
docker run -u root --rm -it -v ~/.kube:/opt/app-root/.kube -v ~/.azure:/opt/app-root/.azure -v ~/.ssh:/opt/app-root/.ssh -v $(pwd):/opt/app-root/src quay.io/mhildenb/az-demo-shell:latest /bin/zsh
----

=== Windows

. Have one window of Chrome with the following tabs
.. Azure DevOps (already logged into your Organization, for example link:https://dev.azure.com/mhildenb[here])
.. Topology view of the Dev Project
. Have a second window with the following tabs
.. Topology view of staging project

== Demo: Create from Git

. Enter the git options per below:
** `git repo url`: `https://mhildenb@dev.azure.com/mhildenb/fmg-project/_git/eshop`
** `Git Reference`: `feature-fmg`
+ 
image:create-from-git-1.png[]
+
. *Builder*: Select the .NET Core builder and the `3.1-ubi8` builder image per the image below
+
image:create-from-git-2.png[]
+
. IMPORTANT: Make sure the deployment is called `eshop`.  You don't need to set an application group
. Check the `Add pipeline` option to create a Tekton Pipeline
+
image:create-from-git-3.png[]
+
. Click Deployments and add all the following from the `eshop-dev` secret (and as shown):
+
image:create-from-git-5.png[]
+
. Click `Create`.  You should be navigated to the topology view
. After the deployment is created in the `hidden-shell` run the following command
+
----
oc annotate deploy/eshop --overwrite "app.openshift.io/vcs-uri"="https://github.com/hatmarch/eShopOnWeb.git" -n $dev_prj
----
. Notice that the deployment is pending.  Also notice that the build badge is set in the "building" state.  kbd:[CMD] + click on that badge to navigate to the pipeline run in a new tab.
+
image:initial-dev-deploy.png[]
+
. The pipeline details screen appears with a build already in progress.  
+
image::initial-pipeline-run.png[]
+
. _Now arrange the pipeline tab in a separate window so that the Topology view is shown as well.  That way the new deployment can be shown the instant the build is completed_
. Follow the logs from the *shell* as these are more stable than watching in real time in the UI.  To do so enter the following command:
+
----
oc project $dev_prj
tkn pr logs -L -f  
----
. Go back to the topology view and click on the Build badge that has since appeared with a green check
+
image:pipeline-badge.png[]
+
. Show the UI version of the logs
. Go back to the topology view and click on the Route badge
. Login and put something in the cart
.. We might show that the database will be shared between CRW and the code


== Edit in CRW

. Show the explorer
** be sure to open the `eShopWeb > src > Web > Controllers` folder to show the dotnet core structure
** Can also show the `Web.csproj` or `Startup.cs`
+
image:crw-explorer.png[]
+
. Show the tools drawer
+
image:crw-tools.png[]
+
. Whilst the tools drawer is open, click `Seed Cache` to restore packages from a cache on the container
** This is a way of responding to the `there are some dependencies` popup
. When the `Seed Cache` task is complete open a terminal
. Show that you can log into OpenShift from the terminal
+
----
oc login $(oc whoami --show-server)
----
+
. Run some commands, but especially this one to prove that the environment has been customized to include the az cli
+
----
az pipelines list --org https://dev.azure.com/mhildenb -p fmg-project
----
+
. Use kbd:[CMD + p] to open `_LoginPartial.cshtml` quickly
. Search for `Login` text and update with `Login HERE`
+
image:crw-login.png[]
+
. Use kbd:[CMD + p] to open `azure-pipelines.yml` quickly
. Show that one of the steps is `oc-db-seed.sh`
. Use kbd:[CMD + p] to open `oc-db-seed.sh` quickly
. Switch to the topology view of the staging namespace and show that there is only a database
. Back in CRW, run the following command in the terminal to show that the database still needs to be seeded
+
----
sqlcmd -S tcp:hplus-db.az-demo-stage.svc.cluster.local -q 'select name from sys.databases' -U sa -P 'yourStrong(!)Password'
----
+
. In `oc-db-seed.sh` uncomment the following lines to show usage of oc
+
----
# FIXME: Uncomment to access the oc command
# oc project $PROJECT
# oc port-forward svc/${DATABASE_SVC} 1433:1433 &
----
+
. Open the tools menu and select `build`
. When the build is complete select `run`
. Click okay on all the popups.  Eventually preview will be opened
. After popups are gone, keep hitting refresh on the preview until the site appears.  Then use the highlighted open in new window button to show a non-squished version of the site
+
image:crw-preview.png[]
+
. Use kbd:[CMD + p] to open the `launchSettings.json` (in the `eShopWeb/src/Web/Properties/`) file quickly and show the `CRW` profile
. Use kbd:[CMD + p] to open the `devfile.yaml` in the project directory and inspect the `build` action (which also features in the menu to the right).  
** Point out that this invokes the `CRW` launch setting that we just showed
+
image::devfile-build.png[]
+
. Log into the website ([red]#preferrably from a separate tab#)
. Show that the cart contains what was purchased previously when we last connected to the dev database
+
image::dev-shopping-cart.png[]
+
. To prove that the build is really running from CRW, stop the running build and then switch back to the browser tab and reload.  You should get an error like this one (indicating that there is no active deployment):
+
image::no-active-deployment.png[]


== Show Azure DevOps

. From CRW, go to the git option.  You should see the 2 files that have been changed
. Show differences 
. Enter a commit message like `Made changes for demo`.  Click commit
+
image::crw-git-ui.png[]
+
. Next we're going to push to the azure-devops repo which will in turn trigger our Azure DevOps pipeline.  
** to see where we're committing, you can use kbd:[CMD + p] to quickly open the `devfile.yaml`
+
image::devfile-git-repo.png[]
+
. To push, click the `...` menu to the right and select `Push`
+
image::crw-git-push.png[]
+
. When prompted for a password, switch to Azure DevOps
. Navigate to the `AZURE_PROJECT` project
. Click on Repos, then Clone, then in the popup window click `Generate Git Credentials`
+
image:azure-devops-creds.png[]
+
. Copy the password
. Go back to the CRW window and paste in for password
. Push should be successful, switch back to the Azure Pipelines tab
. Show that a pipeline has been triggered.  Click on the one that is running
+
image:pipeline-runs.png[]
+
. Click on the commit id to show that the changes were from CRW
+
image:azure-repo-commit.png[]
+
. Click into the pipeline details and then click into the job
+
. Show the logs from all the different steps of the jobs
** Pay special attention to the `oc-setup` and `deploy` parts of the jobs
.

Commit message:

Update instructions for logging into OpenShift and Azure from CRW

docs/walkthrough.adoc, after:

= Azure DevOps Demo
:experimental:
:imagesdir: images
:toc:
:toclevels: 4

[IMPORTANT]
.On necessary operators
====
See link:../README.adoc[] for information on operators and other prerequisites that must be installed for the demo to run properly.
====

== Initial Setup

The following sections review the different windows and potential setup necessary prior to going through the different chapters of this walkthrough.

=== Demo Shell

. Go to the root of the `azure-devops-demo` directory on your local machine
. Run this docker command from that directory (so that all the remaining commands will be run from inside a container will all the necessary tools installed)
+
----
docker run -u root --rm -it -v ~/.kube:/opt/app-root/.kube -v ~/.azure:/opt/app-root/.azure -v ~/.ssh:/opt/app-root/.ssh -v $(pwd):/opt/app-root/src quay.io/mhildenb/az-demo-shell:latest /bin/zsh
----
+
. Open a second shell offscreen, the `hidden shell` and go to the root of the `azure-devops-demo` directory on your local machine
. Run the same docker command from before
+
----
docker run -u root --rm -it -v ~/.kube:/opt/app-root/.kube -v ~/.azure:/opt/app-root/.azure -v ~/.ssh:/opt/app-root/.ssh -v $(pwd):/opt/app-root/src quay.io/mhildenb/az-demo-shell:latest /bin/zsh
----

=== Windows

. Have one window of Chrome with the following tabs
.. Azure DevOps (already logged into your Organization, for example link:https://dev.azure.com/mhildenb[here])
.. Topology view of the Dev Project
. Have a second window with the following tabs
.. Topology view of staging project

== Demo: Create from Git

. Enter the git options per below:
** `git repo url`: `https://mhildenb@dev.azure.com/mhildenb/fmg-project/_git/eshop`
** `Git Reference`: `feature-fmg`
+ 
image:create-from-git-1.png[]
+
. *Builder*: Select the .NET Core builder and the `3.1-ubi8` builder image per the image below
+
image:create-from-git-2.png[]
+
. IMPORTANT: Make sure the deployment is called `eshop`.  You don't need to set an application group
. Check the `Add pipeline` option to create a Tekton Pipeline
+
image:create-from-git-3.png[]
+
. Click Deployments and add all the following from the `eshop-dev` secret (and as shown):
+
image:create-from-git-5.png[]
+
. Click `Create`.  You should be navigated to the topology view
. After the deployment is created in the `hidden-shell` run the following command
+
----
oc annotate deploy/eshop --overwrite "app.openshift.io/vcs-uri"="https://github.com/hatmarch/eShopOnWeb.git" -n $dev_prj
----
. Notice that the deployment is pending.  Also notice that the build badge is set in the "building" state.  kbd:[CMD] + click on that badge to navigate to the pipeline run in a new tab.
+
image:initial-dev-deploy.png[]
+
. The pipeline details screen appears with a build already in progress.  
+
image::initial-pipeline-run.png[]
+
. _Now arrange the pipeline tab in a separate window so that the Topology view is shown as well.  That way the new deployment can be shown the instant the build is completed_
. Follow the logs from the *shell* as these are more stable than watching in real time in the UI.  To do so enter the following command:
+
----
oc project $dev_prj
tkn pr logs -L -f  
----
. Go back to the topology view and click on the Build badge that has since appeared with a green check
+
image:pipeline-badge.png[]
+
. Show the UI version of the logs
. Go back to the topology view and click on the Route badge
. Login and put something in the cart
.. We might show that the database will be shared between CRW and the code


== Edit in CRW

. Show the explorer
** be sure to open the `eShopWeb > src > Web > Controllers` folder to show the dotnet core structure
** Can also show the `Web.csproj` or `Startup.cs`
+
image:crw-explorer.png[]
+
. Show the tools drawer
+
image:crw-tools.png[]
+
. Whilst the tools drawer is open, click `Seed Cache` to restore packages from a cache on the container
** This is a way of responding to the `there are some dependencies` popup
. When the `Seed Cache` task is complete open a terminal
. Show that you can log into OpenShift from the terminal
+
----
oc login $(oc whoami --show-server) -u opentlc-mgr
----
+
. Run some commands, but especially this one to prove that the environment has been customized to include the az clifootnote:[You may need to log into azure first using `az login` and following the instructions posted]
+
----
az pipelines list --org https://dev.azure.com/mhildenb -p fmg-project
----
+
. Use kbd:[CMD + p] to open `_LoginPartial.cshtml` quickly
. Search for `Login` text and update with `Login HERE`
+
image:crw-login.png[]
+
. Use kbd:[CMD + p] to open `azure-pipelines.yml` quickly
. Show that one of the steps is `oc-db-seed.sh`
. Use kbd:[CMD + p] to open `oc-db-seed.sh` quickly
. Switch to the topology view of the staging namespace and show that there is only a database
. Back in CRW, run the following command in the terminal to show that the database still needs to be seeded
+
----
sqlcmd -S tcp:hplus-db.az-demo-stage.svc.cluster.local -q 'select name from sys.databases' -U sa -P 'yourStrong(!)Password'
----
+
. In `oc-db-seed.sh` uncomment the following lines to show usage of oc
+
----
# FIXME: Uncomment to access the oc command
# oc project $PROJECT
# oc port-forward svc/${DATABASE_SVC} 1433:1433 &
----
+
. Open the tools menu and select `build`
. When the build is complete select `run`
. Click okay on all the popups.  Eventually preview will be opened
. After popups are gone, keep hitting refresh on the preview until the site appears.  Then use the highlighted open in new window button to show a non-squished version of the site
+
image:crw-preview.png[]
+
. Use kbd:[CMD + p] to open the `launchSettings.json` (in the `eShopWeb/src/Web/Properties/`) file quickly and show the `CRW` profile
. Use kbd:[CMD + p] to open the `devfile.yaml` in the project directory and inspect the `build` action (which also features in the menu to the right).  
** Point out that this invokes the `CRW` launch setting that we just showed
+
image::devfile-build.png[]
+
. Log into the website ([red]#preferrably from a separate tab#)
. Show that the cart contains what was purchased previously when we last connected to the dev database
+
image::dev-shopping-cart.png[]
+
. To prove that the build is really running from CRW, stop the running build and then switch back to the browser tab and reload.  You should get an error like this one (indicating that there is no active deployment):
+
image::no-active-deployment.png[]


== Show Azure DevOps

. From CRW, go to the git option.  You should see the 2 files that have been changed
. Show differences 
. Enter a commit message like `Made changes for demo`.  Click commit
+
image::crw-git-ui.png[]
+
. Next we're going to push to the azure-devops repo which will in turn trigger our Azure DevOps pipeline.  
** to see where we're committing, you can use kbd:[CMD + p] to quickly open the `devfile.yaml`
+
image::devfile-git-repo.png[]
+
. To push, click the `...` menu to the right and select `Push`
+
image::crw-git-push.png[]
+
. When prompted for a password, switch to Azure DevOps
. Navigate to the `AZURE_PROJECT` project
. Click on Repos, then Clone, then in the popup window click `Generate Git Credentials`
+
image:azure-devops-creds.png[]
+
. Copy the password
. Go back to the CRW window and paste in for password
. Push should be successful, switch back to the Azure Pipelines tab
. Show that a pipeline has been triggered.  Click on the one that is running
+
image:pipeline-runs.png[]
+
. Click on the commit id to show that the changes were from CRW
+
image:azure-repo-commit.png[]
+
. Click into the pipeline details and then click into the job
+
. Show the logs from all the different steps of the jobs
** Pay special attention to the `oc-setup` and `deploy` parts of the jobs
.
